---
layout: post
title: "Git Configurations"
tags:
date: 2017-07-13T18:27:49-05:00
---
After installing Git, we recommend a few Git configurations that will make using Git on your device.

### Make Atom the Default Editor
To make Git use the Atom text editor to interact with you instead of **vim** (or whatever your system's default terminal editor may be) run the following two commands

(for Windows machines, make sure you're running these commands in the git-bash program you installed in this lesson):

```$ echo "export EDITOR='atom -w'" >> ~/.bash_profile```
```$ source ~/.bash_profile```

### Configure Color Output
Setting this **global** configuration will color code Git information in the terminal for easier reading:

`$ git config --global color.ui true`

### Ignore files
Once a Git repository is created in your project directory, Git will track every file and folder there, even the ones you may not want included in your project! For example, operating systems often add files without input from you. For example, Macs create hidden files in most directories called .DS_Store. Windows directories often contain files called Thumbs.db.

To ignore these files in all of your Git repositories, you can create an "ignore file" in your home directory with the global tag to indicate this is for every Git repository that is created anywhere on the device.

Here are the steps:

**1.** Navigate to your home directory:

`$ cd ~`

**2.** Create an empty, new file in your home directory called .gitignore_global:

`$ touch .gitignore_global`

**3.** Open your new file in Atom (or you can use an editor in the terminal like Nano or Vim, if you prefer):

`$ atom .gitignore_global`

**4.** Within the file you've just opened in Atom, or a Terminal text editor (like Nano or Vim), add rules for the files and file types you want ignored by creating a list. Each kind of file should reside on a new line. (See example below)

At this point, you may not know what files you'd want to ignore globally. That's fine. To get started, copy and paste the list below into your .gitignore_global file (from GitHub's list). This will ensure that pesky files generated by your operating system will not fill up your project folders:

```# OS generated files #
######################
.DS_Store
.DS_Store?
._*
.Spotlight-V100
.Trashes
ehthumbs.db
Thumbs.db```

As you gain experience with the kinds of files you don't want cluttering your Git repository, you can return to your .gitignore file and add others.

**5.** Tell Git to use this file as a rule for all of the coding projects you set up on this computer:

`$ git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global`
